REPORT for BEM STUDY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Goal: Understanding BEM and finding numerical solution of  Annulus problem 
using high-order Galerkin expansion method.

Approach:
1. Formulation for Boundary Integral expression for 2D Annulus problem.
2. Lookup text books that expalins existing Boundary Element Method.
3. Galerkin Boundary Element method Formulation.
4. Useful Techniques to deal with 2 Singular kernels.

In detail:

1. From this first of this topic, we need exact representation of Green's
   function for
		1: Laplace equation
		2: 2 kinds of Boundary Condition
		3: Annulus Geometry

	 	Status1: 
			I've been working on how to derive general Green's function 
		Result1: 
			I became to understand how to derive fundamental solution and	fail 
			to find way to find special Green's function for Annulus.
		 	This means I still don't know how the point source perturbation	is 
			working on Annulus domain.
		Reference1: 
			[1]http://www.esc.auckland.ac.nz/Academic/Texts/FEM-BEM-notes.html:First
			article made me be clear how to setup the equation on interior/bdy.
			
		Status2: 
			I've finally found a research paper that has title [2]'A Green's
			function for the Annulus' by Miroslay Englis, Jaak Peetre, at Annali
			di Matematica Pura Appl. 1996 p313. 

		Result2: 
			The main part of the paper is for finding Green's function of
			Biharmonic equation, but at the appendix, it has GF for laplace equation.
			Unfortunately, the paper doesn't have acceptable physical explanation
			and the GF for Laplace is showed in brief and it is not a closed form
			but a form of Jacobi theta function(?). I thought it seemed to be hard
			to use. It also assumed homogeneous Dirichlet boundary. 
			Since I expected a form of fundamental solution + Harmonic function, 
			it was disappointing.

		Status3: 
			A week ago, I started to suspect in finding exact form of GF 
			from literatures.Finding GF in our domain, and bdy condition from 
			the articles are too time consuming.

		Result3:
			During the talk with a friend in RPI, I was told that there's 
			numerical method that take only fundamental solution into account
		 	to solve any type of geometry and In integral equation approach is kind 
			of newer than finite/spectral element methods so that there's still 
			a lot of research've been doing for numerical solution. This inspired me
			and I decide to talk with advisor on further research after BEM work.

		Reference3:
			[3]JYlee, JRYoon, A Numerical method for Cauchy problem using SVD. 
			Comm. Korean Math. Soc. 16, 2001, pp487.


2. For text book study, I could find the way of people formulate and how it 
	 could have differenc variations for each cases. The goal of this item is
	 to distingush general formulation and particular variation. Specially, in
	 numerical implementation I could find 

		1. Collocation/Gallerkin.
		2. In Gallerkin, step/linear functions of compact suport/high order basis.
		3. Deriving Ax=b and its solvability.	
		4. Constraints of given conditions for collocation method to solve Ax=b.

		Status1:
			Most of references I look into are dealing with collocation method 
			[4,5,6,8]. [8,9] have part(or all) for Galerkin method.  
			list of the books are at the reference below. 

		Status2:
			The Galerkin method in [8] and [9] are the same form which apply
			integration inner product after attaching test functions to 
			the BEM equation. But problem for [8] is that it just use simple step
			function to make the equation simpler. [9] has much similar approach
			with our approach, but both of them does mention evaluation of integral
			in conceptual level and singluar integral is far from implementation.

		Status3:
			The unknowns are \hat u and d/dn \hat u. This means we need 2N unknowns
			and I was confused that advisor said in mathematics, every stiffness
			matrix from 2nd order pdd is invertible. But [3] said the resulting 
			matrix are ill-posed and I saw other literatures that deal with
			regularization after singular integral(stiffness matrix calculation).

		Status4:
			If we accept the Galerkin formulation done at [3,8,9], we could find 
			in collocation method we assume the number of boundary condition is 
			restricted to make matrix A at Ax=b to be nonsingular. This works 
			as a problem in Galerkin method. Since we used out Boundary conditions
			in formulations, we obtain the linear system of A u = B d/dn u, Which
			remains 2Nx2N system. 

    Reference 1-4
			[4] Boundary element techniques : theory and applications in engineering /
				  C.A. Brebbia, J.C.F. Telles, L.C. Wrobel. ML:TA347.B69 B734 1984.
			[5] The boundary element method / L.C. Wrobel. ML TA347.B69 W76 2002    
			[6] The boundary element method for engineers / 
					C.A. Brebbia. ML TA335 .B73 1984
			[7] The boundary element method in geophysics / by Shi-zhe Xu .
					ML QC809.M37 X8 2001.
			[8] A practical guide to boundary element methods with the 
					software library BEMLIB, ML, TA347.B69 P69 2002
			[9] P. Parreira & M. Guiggiani, ``On the implementation of the 
					Galerkin approach in the boundary element method'', 
					Computers & Structures, Vol. 33, pp.269--279, 1989. ML, TA641 .C65    


3. I enumerate what I obtained here.
		1. On Galerking formulation Comparison to spectral mtd on Annulus.
		2. Singular Integral and quadrature rule.
		3. 4 Singular Integral Evaluations

		Status 1:
			I think the Galerkin Boundary Formulation we talked last meeting is so
			similar to the situation on 2D spectral method on Annulus. 
			In 2D Spectral, one	of function evaluation in strong form was dealt 
			with an inverse Fourier transform and it caused that we could solve 
			the weak form as double integral which I needed a 2D matrix of quadrature points. 

		Status 2:
			I read from above listeratures and [10] about the issue of singular 
			integral that follows when we try to solve integral equation 
			through projection for to certain function space. In particular when
			we use quadratuer rule, the rule no longer guarantee analytical accuracy
			and I saw some web pages that investigated quadrature errors. For this 
			issue, I saw some expert of my graduate schoold senior on graduature
			rule publish a paper about transform of singular quadrature so that
			he got rid of singularity then we don't need to worry about singularity
			when we evaluate the function with quadrature points.
			I contacted him and am waiting for reply.

		Status 3: 
 			In [10], there's 4 kinds of evaluation techniques for singular integral.
			1: Using Gauss Rule  - We hope to integrate if integrand has removable
				singularity (like sinx/x x=0), 
			2: Singular Chebyshev Rule - This is similar Quadrature rule 
				we want to utilize, 
			3: Subtraction of singularity - Though some literatures (like [8,9]) 
				mention and Dr. Carsten Wolters tried to address at last SCI seminar, 
				this method is useful when we have quite a complicate form of 
				Green's function which non-fundamental solution parts are meaningful. 
				We are still standing with only fundamental solution. So this technique 				is not ready for us I thought. 
			4: The last one is discarding singularity. In our meeting we talked one
				paragraph of book [8] on this topic. This should be used as a method
				of last resort.

	Reference 
		[10] Computational Methods for integral equations, 
				L.M.Delves & J.L.Mohamed, Cambridge Univ.Press, 1985

4. Through out 2D, 3D problems, we have singularity of Weak(removable), 
		Strong, Hypersingularity. In 2D case, GF are not hypersingular and
		d/dn ln r is considered to be removable singularity and has value 1/2 K(x)
		where K is curvature on x. But ln r is strong singularity and this 
		is found to need special treatment in numerical scheme. From paper [3], I 
		found some additional work will lead this in so called super algebraically
		convergent value. 

		This is an example when we try to apply quite a new method such as
		high-order Gallerkin BEM, we will face some issues of difficulties that
		only mathematitians touched in some special/general cases. Though
		I think I got one of approach to solve it in scientifically
		correct fashion, there might be better way we could find from the 
		empirical approach. I think this will be special way that mathematician
		hardly find out. Or I think we can go around and find how mathematicians
		have solved this kind of problems.
